Mya,

I don’t really know how to start this letter because there is so much I want to say, but like I mentioned last night, I am genuinely terrified to lose you over something that we could work out together.

You’re the only person that understands me on such a deep level. You’re the only person I can truly picture myself having a happy future with, and you’re the only person I want to be with. You’re the only person I can comfortably open up to about how I’m feeling. I literally dream about making it out of high school together, getting an apartment somewhere nice, and starting my life with you. I would seriously do anything to make that a reality. That’s why I’m so persistent and quick to fix things when stuff goes wrong because it kills my dream if I don’t. I’m sorry if that annoys you when we argue, but it’s not something I can turn off. The feelings I have for you are deeply rooted, and to have started something so nice with you, it scares me to even risk having it end in a bad way.

I love you, but I hate being in panic mode when I feel like our relationship is at risk. I grew so attached to you when we first started talking a year ago because you made me feel something after being numb for so long. I’m not sure if you remember a lot of the stuff I told you about my mental health back then, but I’m not perfect. I have a lot of deeply rooted issues from my childhood that still affect the way I think and behave today (separation anxiety, trust issues, issues with abandonment, etc.). Like being in panic mode, my brain thinks I’m being abandoned by one of my greatest sources of happiness that I’ve ever had, so it just defaults into this state of trying to save and fix everything instantly even when it’s out of my control.

But I shouldn’t be entirely blamed for this. I could be in panic mode and be sending paragraphs trying to fix an issue or communicate about a problem with us, and it will be worthless if I’m not getting the same effort back from you to talk about it. I love you, but I hate being ignored when I’m trying to communicate with you and feeling like I have to beg for your attention when we argue. You can’t protect your heart by acting like you don’t have one. I remember a time when I would just get distant with everybody I knew and shut them out after any minor inconvenience or if something stressed me out. I didn’t understand how to communicate how I felt because I never opened up, and every time I tried, I would get told off by my own family or told to grow up. I don’t know your exact reason why you shut me/people out, but I understand it could be something you’re not able to control or just an instinct like how I was.

I love you, but when you do something that bothers me, I hate that things turn awkward/argumentative/weird between us when I bring it up or try to talk about it. I hate how it ruins my mood/behavior when I don’t bring it up and just sit to think about it and go silent. Sometimes I feel it’s better to sit in silence than to appear vulnerable in front of you or people in general. It’s just a lose-lose situation, and I don’t want things to be like that with us. I should be able to be vulnerable and comfortable around you, and it should be the same way for you. I really do love you; that’s why I get mad or frustrated at even the small things. I promise that I’m trying to work on being better about my problems, but it’s an effort on both sides to be better and aware of each other’s problems.

I would rather retry with you 10,000 times before giving up because I understand that no matter how old we think we are mentally, we are still very young and don’t really know anything about love. I’m still learning how to love correctly and how to communicate correctly without being overbearing, but I need you to help me so I know what I’m doing wrong and what I can do better. Obviously, we are not going to know what the other person wants or what bothers the other person. That’s why it is good and very important to have these types of conversations, even though this is just a letter, to adjust and improve our relationship, improve what bothers us, and to help each other in the end.

People avoid these types of conversations, and I used to be one of those people. As I explained earlier in the letter, I didn’t want to confront my problems, so I would just avoid them and act like it was nothing. This might seem like a solution at first, but it very slowly deteriorates the relationship, and that is the absolute last thing I want between us. I want to know what I’m doing wrong so I can change it to continue keeping our relationship healthy. I see the world differently from a lot of people. I understand that everything isn’t black and white and situations are never that simple. Dating isn’t simple, but dating can be easier when you just take the time to see past your ego and talk to the other person with the goal of seeing a different perspective. Your ego would rather seek instant gratification by following pleasure (avoiding problems, cutting people off over an issue, withdrawing from the conversation, etc.) rather than face the pain of talking something out and getting over it together. It’s not good to bottle things in or to act like things don’t bother you.

I’m not talking about your ego specifically, but rather everybody’s. It’s literal human nature to avoid pain or discomfort, which is why pleasure (in the way I’m talking about it here) is so easy to fall into and why it’s so addicting. When you surrender the ego’s desire to control the outcomes of experiences/arguments/life or anything in general and face the discomfort, there is an opportunity for deeper self-reflection, which can lead to a greater understanding of your own self and brain and the reasons why you feel the need for pleasure and control.

Over time, the ego will start to rebalance itself, which can lead to a more stable and peaceful state of being, where pleasure or control is no longer seen as normal, but rather just one aspect of a richer, more balanced life. Withdrawing from addictive pleasure can be a powerful beginning for spiritual growth and can lead to a deeper connection with your true self and a better understanding of what really brings you genuine fulfillment and happiness.

Letting go of my ego has been the best choice I have ever made in my entire life. It was the start of when I became spiritual and why I believe in all the things I do now. That’s why I told you I wanted to talk about being spiritual with you one day because it truly brings a lot of knowledge and gives you a completely different, unseen perspective on life.

Removing your ego can start a connection with your true self, the part of you that is beyond the impulsive side of your brain. This connection brings a big sense of inner peace and contentment that is not reliant on external sources. You can start to find authentic joy in simple things like nature, relationships, or even just expressing yourself—things that don’t rely on the highs and lows of ego-driven thoughts. Spiritual growth leads to living more authentically, allowing your actions, decisions, and behaviors to align with your true values and beliefs.

When your perspective on life expands, you start seeing beyond the immediate gratification and understand the interconnectedness of all things. You develop greater compassion and empathy for others, recognizing their struggles and journeys. Spiritual insights gained through this process of removing ego become integrated into everyday life, leading to a more balanced and harmonious life, an ability to go through life’s challenges with ease, a clearer sense of purpose and direction, and relationships built on compassion and understanding rather than need and desire.

Regular introspection with each other can help us understand our true motivations, goals, and the underlying issues that drive the problems in our relationship. Finding the root of the issue helps me to not do it again, and the same applies to you. That’s why I’m telling you the root of my issues so you can understand it’s not just impulsive behavior. I want to understand you as well.

I seriously want to build a future with you, where every day is filled with love and compassion, and we can become better versions of ourselves every day. If I didn’t, I wouldn’t have even taken the time to write you this entire letter and tell you all these things. I’m sorry if anything in here came off as rude or made it seem like you’re the problem because you really aren’t. We both have completely different ways of loving each other, and like I said before, we are still young and learning to even express that love for each other the right way. I understand it’s hard, but that’s what makes it all the better and more rewarding when we actually work through things together.

You are genuinely the most perfect girl to me, Mya, and I don’t know how I could fully express those feelings for you besides letters like these where I can just talk and talk and talk. I want you to go back and read my previous long letter about you so you can understand that nothing I said here was out of hate or anger, but out of love and a longing for protection and security in our relationship. I want us to last forever, and I really mean it when I say that. I want to do everything with you, and I want you to be there for the big accomplishments in my life so I can share them with you.

I seriously need you, and I want you to see that this isn’t some sort of joke or game to me. I actually love you so, so much, Mya. You make my life better each day I spend with you, and I really mean that.

With ALL of my love, Jack

